Port MASTG test 0038 (by @guardsquare) (#3044)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-TEST-0x38.md

---
title: Usage of Insecure Signature Version
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0x39-1
type: [static]
available_since: 24
weakness: MASWE-0104
---

## Overview

> Applications need to be properly signed to safeguard their integrity and protect them from tampering. Android has evolved its signing schemes over time to enhance security, with newer versions offering more robust mechanisms. Check [APK Signing Schemes](../../../Document/0x05a-Platform-Overview.md#signing-process) for more details.
> 
> This test checks if the insecure v1 signature scheme is enabled for applications targeting Android 7.0 (API level 24) and above.

Reviewer: I thought we could reformulate to sound more like an "issue", also the "targeting" part can be confusing. I hope this makes it better:

```suggestion
Not using newer APK signing schemes means that the app lacks the enhanced security provided by more robust, updated mechanisms.

This test checks if the outdated v1 signature scheme is enabled. The v1 scheme is vulnerable to certain attacks, such as the "Janus" vulnerability ([CVE-2017-13156](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-13156)), because it does not cover all parts of the APK file, allowing malicious actors to potentially **modify parts of the APK without invalidating the signature**. Relying solely on v1 signing therefore increases the risk of tampering and compromises app security.

To learn more about APK Signing Schemes, see [this document](../../../Document/0x05a-Platform-Overview.md#signing-process).
```
